https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/saskatchewan/two-accused-rcmp-officer-death-1.6064860
2 charged in Sask. RCMP officer's death appear in Regina provincial court | CBC News Skip to Main Content MenuTokyo 2020 SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News 2 charged in Sask. RCMP officer's death appear in Regina provincial court | CBC News Loaded Saskatchewan 2 charged in Sask. RCMP officer's death appear in Regina provincial court The two people charged in the recent death of Saskatchewan RCMP Const. Shelby Patton appeared in court Monday morning in Regina. The pair from Winnipeg face several charges, including manslaughter. Social Sharing Man and woman from Winnipeg face several charges, including manslaughter Heidi Atter · CBC News · Posted: Jun 14, 2021 10:32 AM CT | Last Updated: June 17 Saskatchewan RCMP held a news conference Saturday evening following the death of Const. Shelby Patton, who worked at the RCMP detachment in Indian Head, Sask. (Mickey Djuric/CBC) Editor's note: A previous version of this story included an interview with two people claiming they were eyewitnesses to the incident that led to the death of RCMP Const. Shelby Patton.  CBC interviewed the couple at the site of the collision in Wolseley, Sask. They told CBC News details of the events they claimed to witness from their apartment overlooking the scene. The couple expressed shock and emotion at what they say they had witnessed. At that time, we had no reason to doubt their story.  The RCMP contacted CBC after investigators interviewed the couple, indicating their information showed that the couple's story was false. CBC News contacted the two people, who then admitted they had fabricated the story they told to our reporter. We have removed their account from this story. RCMP released a statement about the false account Thursday. Read more about that here. Warning: This story contains graphic details some readers may find distressing. The two people charged in the recent death of a Saskatchewan RCMP officer appeared in court Monday morning in Regina. RCMP announced late Sunday night that Alphonse Stanley Traverse, 41, and Marlene Velma Louise Pagee, 42, both of Winnipeg, face several charges in the death of RCMP Const. Shelby Patton, who was killed while on duty at 8 a.m. CST Saturday. The charges include manslaughter, failure to stop after an accident resulting in death, theft of a motor vehicle and possession of stolen property over $5,000. Pagee was also charged with possession of methamphetamine.  Both appeared in Regina Provincial Court Monday morning. Pagee and Traverse both told the judge they understood the charges. Pagee's matter was adjourned to Friday at 2 p.m. CST so she could get legal advice. Traverse's matter was adjourned until Monday, June 21, at 2 p.m. CST. Man and woman charged with manslaughter in death of Sask. RCMP Const. Shelby Patton On-duty officer killed, 2 in custody after collision in southern Saskatchewan, RCMP say Police say Patton was following a stolen truck from Manitoba when he initiated a traffic stop in the town of Wolseley, Sask., 95 kilometres east of Regina. According to police, Patton was approaching on foot and was struck by the truck. A passerby tried to resuscitate Patton, but was unable to do so.  Police say the two accused fled the scene and were arrested in a farmer's field in the town of Francis before 10 a.m. CST. RCMP continued to investigate within the town of Wolseley following Patton's death Saturday. (Bryan Eneas/CBC) According to court documents, Traverse has several outstanding legal matters in Manitoba and has been previously convicted of break and enter, and possession of property obtained by crime.  Pagee also has outstanding matters and previous convictions that include flight from a peace officer, impaired operation of a motor vehicle and possession of property obtained by crime. Patton had been a constable with the RCMP for more than six years. He worked at the Indian Head detachment since 2015. Before that he was on assignment at Parliament during February and March of 2015.  They definitely have to answer to those charges and let's hope they throw the book at them.- Linda Patton On Monday morning, just hours after RCMP announced they had laid charges, Patton's grandmother Linda Patton said the family is getting some relief from knowing the suspects will have to face the courts.  "It's just such a terrible thing, like it should have not have happened," she said. "They definitely have to answer to those charges and let's hope they throw the book at them." She said the outpouring of condolences the family has received from the community and across Canada has helped them through this tragic time. Patton is being remembered as a thoughtful and dedicated police officer who loved his job and his family.  "We just can't thank people enough for the support we've had," she said. "It's just been so overwhelming."  (CBC) Fake GoFundMe shut down by website  RCMP say Patton's family informed them Sunday night of a fraudulent GoFundMe page that stated it was created in the name of Patton.  RCMP alerted people to not promote the page's activities or give money to the campaign, which was run by an account named Sam Joseph. RCMP say they had advised GoFundMe that the account was fake and the page had been deactivated Monday morning. The campaign had raised $1,540.  A fraudulent GoFundMe page using Patton's name was shut down by the site on Monday morning. (GoFundMe) With files from Morgan Modjeski and Mickey Djuric CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now
