https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/10628323
BBC News Alerts - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads BBC News Alerts Published 31 March 2017 Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing This page explains how the BBC can keep you in touch with the latest news. We offer a daily email and Breaking News alerts via the News website, the News App and Twitter. Subscribe to our email newsletter Sign up here to receive BBC News Daily which is published each weekday morning. You'll receive a digest of the day's top news stories and features from BBC News and some of the best writing from elsewhere on the internet. Breaking News alerts on the News website Whenever you come to the BBC News website on a tablet or computer, you'll get notified of the latest breaking news in the 'breaking news banner' which automatically appears at the bottom of your browser window. The banner will disappear when you click on it, dismiss it or visit another page. Add BBC Breaking News alerts to your News app Push notifications are available to users of smartphones and tablets who download the BBC News App, allowing you to receive breaking news alerts. When a push notification is received it will pop up on your screen similar to a text message, regardless of whether or not the app is open at the time. Depending on your settings the alert may also be accompanied by a sound. Tapping the notification will load the corresponding story in the app when it is available. Full details on how push alerts work are available for iPhone and iPads and Android. You can choose to unsubscribe from push notifications from BBC News in your device's 'Notifications' screen. Subscribe to Twitter alerts On Twitter, we offer a breaking news account which you can follow and receive breaking news alerts as they happen. To subscribe login or register with Twitter and then follow @BBCBreaking. Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 3 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
