https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-57978465
Bezos' $2bn offer to get back in race to the Moon - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads Science Bezos' $2bn offer to get back in race to the Moon By Paul Rincon Science editor, BBC News website Published 15 hours ago Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing image copyrightBlue Origin image captionThe design developed by Blue Origin in partnership with aerospace giants was called "Blue Moon" Jeff Bezos has offered to cover $2bn (£1.4bn) of Nasa costs in order to be reconsidered for a key contract to build a Moon landing vehicle. In April, the space agency awarded the $2.9bn contract to Elon Musk, rejecting a bid from Bezos' company Blue Origin. The award is for building the landing system that will carry astronauts down to the lunar surface as early as 2024. Nasa could only award the contract to one company, not two as expected because of a funding shortfall. The space agency had received only $850m of the $3.3bn it requested from Congress to build the Moon lander. In a letter to Nasa's administrator Bill Nelson, released on Monday, Mr Bezos wrote: "Blue Origin will bridge the HLS [Human Landing System] budgetary funding shortfall by waiving all payments in the current and next two government fiscal years up to $2bn to get the programme back on track right now. "This offer is not a deferral, but is an outright and permanent waiver of those payments." Nasa chooses SpaceX to build Moon lander Jeff Bezos launches to space aboard rocket ship Nasa outlines plan for first woman on Moon by 2024 image copyrightReuters image captionMr Bezos flew to space with his brother Mark (L) last week, in the first crewed flight of his New Shepard spacecraft At the time of the award, Nasa's human exploration chief Kathy Lueders admitted that the space agency's current budget precluded it from selecting two companies. Nasa also cited the proven record of orbital missions by Elon Musk's SpaceX firm as a factor in the award. Cost is also thought to have played a role: SpaceX's bid was the lowest-priced by some distance. The decision meant that SpaceX's cylindrical Starship vehicle would carry the astronauts in Nasa's first mission to the lunar surface since Apollo 17 in 1972. Alabama-based defence contractor Dynetics was also vying for the contract. Bezos had partnered with aerospace giants Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Draper in a bid to join this crucial phase of Nasa's Human Landing System programme. image copyrightSpaceX image captionSpaceX's winning bid will use an adapted version of its Starship vehicle to land astronauts on the Moon Their design was named the Blue Moon lander, and bore a passing resemblance to a beefed-up version of the lunar module (LM) that carried Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin to the surface in 1969. In his letter, Bezos emphasised Blue Moon's proven heritage: "We created a 21st Century lunar landing system inspired by the well-characterised Apollo architecture - an architecture with many benefits. One of its important benefits is that it prioritizes safety." Musk's Starship has pushed the envelope of spacecraft design, employing a radical approach to landing and incorporating innovative methane-fuelled engines. media captionThe moment Jeff Bezos and crew launch into space on the first human flight of New Shepard Bezos also used his letter to emphasise Blue Origin's use of hydrogen fuel, which dovetails with Nasa's longer-term aims of refuelling spacecraft from water-ice mined on the Moon. The water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen propellant for rocket engines. In Nasa's selection statement from April, SpaceX received an "acceptable" technical rating and an "outstanding" management rating. Blue Origin's bid was also rated "acceptable" on its technical merits but its management rating was deemed "very good" by the space agency. After losing out to SpaceX, Blue Origin filed a protest with the US Government Accountability Office (GAO), alleging Nasa unfairly "moved the goalposts at the last minute" in the way that it awarded the contract to SpaceX. That protest, along with one from Dynetics, is awaiting adjudication, although some in the space community regard the chances of a reversal as unlikely. Follow Paul on Twitter. Related Topics Commercial space travel Jeff Bezos Nasa Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
