https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-57982252
Britney Spears officially requests new conservator to replace her father - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads Entertainment & Arts Britney Spears officially requests new conservator to replace her father By Mark Savage BBC music reporter Published 3 hours ago Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing image copyrightGetty Images image captionThe star has not been in control of her affairs since 2008 Britney Spears has officially asked for her father to be replaced as her conservator, 13 years after he assumed control of her life and finances. The star's new lawyer petitioned the court on Monday, a month after Spears broke her public silence on the arrangement, calling it "abusive". In court papers, Mathew S. Rosengart described the conservatorship as a "Kafkaesque nightmare". He asked for accountant Jason Rubin to be named conservator of Spears' estate. The estate was listed as having cash assets of $2.7 million (£1.95 million) and non-cash assets of more than $57 million ($41 million). According to his website, Rubin has experience in handling complex trust portfolios and cases involving financial exploitation of the elderly. The Britney Spears conservatorship case explained Britney Spears: Everything she said in court Britney Spears in blistering attack on guardianship The move to replace Jamie Spears is expected to be the first stage of a broader strategy to examine the validity of the conservatorship. The arrangement began in 2008, when concerns over Britney's mental health prompted her father to petition the court for legal authority over his daughter's life. Venomous Public support for the star has surged after her emotional court testimony last month, in which she said she had been drugged, forced to perform against her will and prevented from having children. She said she wanted her father removed from his role, claiming he "works me so hard" and had threatened to "punish" her if she didn't follow his orders. In a later Instagram post, she said she would not perform again while her father retained control of her career. "I'm not gonna be performing on any stages anytime soon with my dad handling what I wear, say, do, or think". Jamie Spears has consistently denied any accusations of abuse and has expressed concern for his daughter's wellbeing. image copyrightGetty Images image captionFans gather outside the court any time there is a hearing in Britney's case The petition to remove him from his role comes just two weeks after Mr Rosengart, a former federal prosecutor, took over as Britney's lawyer. He was hired after Samuel D. Ingham III, the court-appointed lawyer who had represented the star for the last 13 years, resigned in light of her court testimony. It was the first time since 2008 that the singer has been allowed to select her own lawyer. In court documents seen by the Los Angeles Times, Mr Rosengart described the relationship between Spears and her father as "venomous" and alleged that "it impairs Ms Spears's mental health, her well-being, and her ability to pursue and continue with her extraordinary career." The filing added that "serious questions abound" concerning Jamie Spears' "potential misconduct, including conflicts of interest, conservatorship abuse and the evident dissipation of Ms Spears's fortune". image copyrightGetty Images image captionMathew S. Rosengart took over as Britney's lawyer earlier this month He noted that Jamie Spears has profited from his daughter's estate, taking a salary of $16,000 (£11,500) a month in addition to costs for office space and taking fees from her performance contracts. "Although it is common for managers, agents and other industry professionals to receive a percentage of an artists' earnings, Mr Spears is none of those," the petition said. "He is a conservator, and, as a conservator, his role is to be burdened by, rather than benefit from, the conservatorship." In addition to requesting a new conservator, Mr Rosengart added: "There might well come a time when the court will be called upon to consider whether the conservatorship should be terminated in its entirety". Mr Spears' lawyer, Vivian Thoreen, has yet to respond. She previously told the court it is "simply not true" that Mr Spears is responsible for his daughter's concerns, and alleged there were a number of "misstatements" in the star's testimony. The motions to remove Mr Spears and replace him with Rubin are scheduled to be addressed at a hearing on 29 September. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. Related Topics Britney Spears Music More on this story The Britney Spears conservatorship case explained Published 15 July Britney Spears: Everything she said in court Published 24 June Britney Spears in blistering attack on guardianship Published 24 June Why the media is saying sorry to Britney Spears Published 11 February Britney: I won't perform while father rules career Published 18 July Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
