https://www.cbc.ca/aboutcbc/discover/policies.html
CBC.ca - Policies CBC.caMENU TV Radio News Sports Music Life Arts Local More Watch Listen Log in SEARCH British Columbia Kamloops Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North Kids Documentaries Comedy Books Parents Indigenous Digital Archives Podcasts Games Contests Site Map CBC Member CBC User You currently have: 0 Likes 0 Comments Subscriptions Go to the Subscriptions Centre to manage your: CBC Newsletters Daily Digests Breaking Alerts Log Out Log out of your CBC account. My Profile My Subscriptions Log Out Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Policies Your Content Submissions Policies Policy on online content retention of radio or television programs Unless specifically stated otherwise, CBC does not commit to retaining radio or television program content online for any period of time. In order to provide added value to its radio and television programs offering, CBC carries online elements of some of its radio and television programs. The purpose of online material retention is only to ease consultation by Internet users and not to set up nor to provide archives, unless when explicitly stated. Journalistic Standards and Policies The CBC occupies a unique position of trust. Not only is it the most substantial and broadly-based broadcast journalism organization in Canada, it is funded, through Parliament, by the people of Canada. The CBC therefore considers it a duty to provide consistent, high-quality information upon which all citizens may rely. The Journalistic Standards and Practices provide the policy framework within which CBC journalism seeks to meet the expectations and obligations it faces. The second edition received approval from the CBC Board of Directors in January, 2001. Explore CBC CBC Home TV Radio News Sports Music Life Arts Kids Local Documentaries Comedy Books Parents Indigenous Digital Archives Games Contests MyCBC Site Map Stay Connected Apps RSS Podcasts Newsletters & Alerts Services and Information Corporate Info Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Policy CBC Shop Help Contact Us Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities CBC Radio-Canada ©2018 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved Visitez Radio-Canada.ca
