https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-57984924
Culture of cover-up saw hundreds of children abused, report finds - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads UK England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News Culture of cover-up saw hundreds of children abused, report finds By Mark Easton Home editor Published 18 minutes ago Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing Related Topics Independent Inquiry into Child Sex Abuse image captionAn archive picture of Shirley Oaks children's home - located in Croydon but run by Lambeth Council Staff and councillors in Lambeth presided over a "culture of cover-up" that led to more than 700 children in care homes suffering cruelty and sexual abuse, an inquiry has found. The Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse strongly criticised the south London council for allowing decades of abuse in five homes. It said abusers were able to to infiltrate homes and the foster system. Lambeth Council has made an unreserved apology to the victims of the abuse. The inquiry into the council, held in the summer of 2020, examined five homes - Angell Road, South Vale Assessment Centre, the Shirley Oaks complex, Ivy House and Monkton Street - dating back to the 1960s. Children's home girl raped '500 times' 'Systematic abuse where I grew up' How the child sexual abuse inquiry works The Independent Inquiry Child Sexual Abuse (IICSA) report said: "With some exceptions, they [Lambeth Council staff] treated children in care as if they were worthless. "As a consequence, individuals who posed a risk to children were able to infiltrate children's homes and foster care, with devastating, life-long consequences for their victims." Of the 705 complaints made by former residents across three such facilities, only one senior member of staff was ever disciplined, the report said. The inquiry's chair, Prof Alexis Jay wrote: "These children became pawns in a toxic power game within Lambeth Council and between the council and central government." The IICSA is calling on the Metropolitan Police to consider a criminal investigation into why allegations of sexual abuse made by a boy, later found dead at the Shirley Oaks care home, were not passed on to the coroner by Lambeth Council in 1977. Shirley Oaks and South Vale were found to have been "brutal places where violence and sexual assault were allowed to flourish". Another care home, Angell Road, "systematically exposed children (including those under the age of five years) to sexual abuse," the report said. image captionThe former Shirley Oaks site in Croydon The council received allegations of abuse, involving at least 529 residents, against 177 members of staff connected with Shirley Oaks, which closed in 1983. Children spent time with "social aunts" or "social uncles", volunteers who worked with children without proper vetting. One such volunteer, Geoffrey Clarke, stayed at Shirley Oaks with regular and unimpeded access to children there from the early 1970s. He was convicted of sexually assaulting three children in 1998, but Lambeth Council is now aware of at least 40 people who have made allegations against him. Clarke was charged with numerous abuse offences as part of Operation Middleton, one of five police investigations into child sexual abuse linked to Lambeth Council from 1992 to the present date. Clarke took his own life before his trial. The inquiry criticises the Metropolitan Police for its failures to follow up evidence that may have led to the identification of further offending. Lambeth Council has apologised to the inquiry for creating and overseeing conditions "where appalling and absolutely shocking and horrendous abuse was perpetrated". However, while noting the apology was "fulsome", the report said the council "did not make any meaningful apology until relatively recently". "This is despite the many investigations and inspections over 20 years which made it clear the duty of care it failed to deliver to so many child victims of sexual abuse," it added. In 2016 Lambeth Council made an unreserved apology to victims of abuse and set up a redress scheme which promised a payment to anyone in its homes put in "harm's way". The council has paid £71.5 million in compensation to former children's home residents, with individual payments of up to £125,000. Additional reporting by Tom Symonds, BBC Home Affairs Correspondent Related Topics Lambeth Croydon Independent Inquiry into Child Sex Abuse More on this story Care abuse survivors call for mandatory reporting Published 31 July 2020 'Be lenient with sex abuser', social services told Published 7 July 2020 Children's home girl raped '500 times' Published 6 July 2020 'Hundreds' of care home children sexually abused Published 29 June 2020 Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
