https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/saskatchewan/rcmp-says-shelby-patton-firearm-holstered-eyewitness-account-false-1.6069635
Eyewitness account false, Const. Shelby Patton's firearm was holstered, Saskatchewan RCMP says | CBC News Skip to Main Content MenuTokyo 2020 SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Eyewitness account false, Const. Shelby Patton's firearm was holstered, Saskatchewan RCMP says | CBC News Loaded Saskatchewan Eyewitness account false, Const. Shelby Patton's firearm was holstered, Saskatchewan RCMP says Police investigators determined two witnesses who spoke to CBC News shared a false account of RCMP Const. Shelby Patton's death in Wolseley, Sask. Social Sharing RCMP officer died June 12 in Wolseley, Sask., while on duty CBC News · Posted: Jun 17, 2021 12:46 PM CT | Last Updated: June 17 A police statement published Thursday morning said two people who claimed they witnessed the death of an on-duty RCMP officer had provided a false account to CBC. (Stuart Forster/Shutterstock) Saskatchewan RCMP say two people who claimed they were witnesses to Const. Shelby Patton's death on June 12 shared a false account with CBC News. When CBC News contacted the two people Thursday morning, they said they had fabricated the story they told to a reporter on Saturday. CBC News had interviewed the couple at the scene in Wolseley, Sask., about 100 kilometres east of Regina, where police say Patton died on duty after being hit by a stolen truck. Two people face charges including manslaughter and possession of stolen property in relation to Patton's death. During the interview, the couple who said they were witnesses told CBC News they saw the incident from their apartment, which they said overlooked the scene. Then on Thursday morning, RCMP said in a statement that after interviewing two people who spoke with CBC News and claimed they witnessed Patton's death, investigators determined those two people were not in Wolseley when the incident took place.  2 charged in Sask. RCMP officer's death appear in Regina provincial court 'He was my Superman': Family calls for justice in RCMP officer Shelby Patton's death Police said investigators determined the witness's apartment had no clear view of where the incident took place.  GRAPHIC | What RCMP have released about the incident that led to Const. Patton's death  (CBC) Investigators also determined Patton's gun did not leave its holster, as the two people claiming to be witnesses had said, police said.  CBC removed what had been reported as a witness account and published an editor's note in the story where the two people's interview had been shared. "The couple expressed shock and emotion at what they say they had witnessed," the note said. "At that time, we had no reason to doubt their story." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now
