https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-57965260
German lawyers wrangle over pensioner's WW2 tank in basement - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads World Africa Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada German lawyers wrangle over pensioner's WW2 tank in basement Published 19 hours ago Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing Related Topics World War Two image copyrightCarsten Rehder/DPA image captionThe World War Two-era Panther tank was removed from a residential property in northern Germany in 2015 Lawyers in Germany are wrangling over how to deal with a pensioner who stored a World War Two tank, anti-aircraft gun and torpedo in his basement. The items were removed from a house in the northern town of Heikendorf in 2015 with the help of the army. Prosecutors and defence lawyers are now negotiating possible penalties, including a suspended sentence and a fine of up to €500,000 (£427,000). The defendant, aged 84, must also find new homes for the monumental items. According to his lawyer, a US museum is interested in purchasing the Panther tank. Many historians argue it was the most efficient such vehicle deployed by Germany during World War Two. The lawyer also said that a number of German collectors had approached the defendant over other items, which included assault rifles and pistols, local media report. At a court hearing on Monday in the city of Kiel, about 100km (60 miles) north of Hamburg, lawyers were trying to determine whether the man's military collection had violated Germany's War Weapons Control Act. The act regulates the manufacture, sale, and transport of weapons of war. The defence argues that many of the weapons are no longer functional and that the tank was bought as scrap. They are considering accepting a lower fine of €50,000, Die Welt newspaper reported. Meanwhile, prosecutors have suggested that some of the weapons and ammunition could still be used. In July 2015, it took about 20 soldiers almost nine hours to extract the Panther tank - which was without its tracks - from the residential property and push it onto a low-loader for transportation. Local authorities were reportedly tipped off about the cellar's contents by colleagues in Berlin, who had earlier searched the home for stolen Nazi art. Another hearing in the case is due on Wednesday and a decision is expected next month. You may be interested to watch: media captionA live Word War Two bomb unearthed by builders in the UK is detonated by an Army disposal team Related Topics Germany World War Two More on this story 'I'm just an ordinary old chap who wanted to fly' Published 28 June Desert Rat's birthday reunion with WW2 vehicle Published 15 October 2020 Fancy buying your own WW2 tank? Published 18 September 2016 Veteran's exclusive look at new tank Published 16 September 2015 Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
