https://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/help/questions/getting-started-with-bbc-iplayer/getting-started-tv
Getting started on a TV | iPlayer help Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC Breadcrumb iPlayer help home Getting started with BBC iPlayer Getting started on a TV search Getting started on a TV BBC iPlayer is available on connected TVs, games consoles, set-top boxes, streamers and platforms including Freesat, Sky, Virgin Media, and YouView. You can access BBC iPlayer in one of the following ways, depending on the device: Launch the app Use your device's on-screen menu and episode guide Press the red button on your remote from a BBC channel Check the manufacturers list at the bottom of the page to see if your connected TV or device is supported. How do I use BBC iPlayer on my device? Freesat If you have a compatible Freesat with Freetime box, BBC iPlayer can be accessed by launching into the On Demand section from the Home menu. Your Freesat device will need to be connected to the internet to access BBC iPlayer. Â  Freeview PlayÂ  If you're using Freeview Play to watch BBC iPlayer then you need to make sure your TV is connected to an aerial before you launch the BBC iPlayer app. For more information on Freeview Play visit their website: Freeview Play. Â  Sky Sky customers with a compatible Sky+ box can access BBC iPlayer from Sky's On Demand section. To find BBC iPlayer, select the TV Guide button on your Sky remote control, navigate to the On Demand section andÂ select Catch Up. Choose BBC iPlayer from the menu. In addition, Sky Q owners can also use the BBC iPlayer app by selecting Home on their Sky remote, navigating to the Apps section, and selecting the BBC iPlayer app. Â  Virgin Media TiVo Virgin Media TiVo users can find BBC iPlayer either via the connected red button or the Apps and Games directory. Within Virgin TiVo, you can also access BBC iPlayer by going left in the EPG and selecting content that is marked available for catch-up.Â  Â  YouView BBC iPlayer is available on YouView, either through a YouView box or compatible YouView-enabled TV. You can use BBC iPlayer on YouView by either selecting BBC iPlayer from the PlayersÂ section, watching a BBC programme from the last seven days via the YouView electronic programme guide, or watching a BBC programme from the last seven days via the YouView On Demand area.Â In order to access BBC iPlayer, YouView devices need to be connected to the internet. Â  Smart TVs and internet connected devices There are several different versions of BBC iPlayer which manufacturers use in their devices. Between these versions, due to technical limitations, there can be some variations inÂ features (subtitles, HD etc.). Each device will need to be connected to the internet to use BBC iPlayer. Select a manufacturer from theÂ table below for information on what core functionality is available for each certified device. Do I have to sign in? Yes, you do. Once you've signed in, you can access your Added programmes and pick up watching where you left off. Check the How do I sign in to BBC iPlayer on my TV? page for a step-by-step guide on signing in. Manufacturers Amazon Manhattan Apple Mitchell and Brown Avtex Netgem Bang and Olufsen NOW TV Bauhn Oppo Bush Panasonic Celcus Philips Cello Polaroid CVTE Pure DGTEC Roku Digihome Sagemcom Electriq Samsung Finlux Seiki Google Sharp Hisense Sony Hitachi TCL Huawei Techwood Humax Telefunken Icecrypt Trimax Technika JVC Toshiba Laurus Triax LG UMC Linsar Vestel Loewe Visitech Logik Vodafone Luxor Walker Related FAQs How do I sign in to BBC iPlayer on my TV? Troubleshooting problems on connected TVs and games consoles How can I check if BBC iPlayer is available on a particular TV? Need more help? Contact us Browse our help categories Getting Started About BBC iPlayer and our policies Accessibility Getting started with BBC iPlayer Need more help? Parental controls Signing in Supported devices Watching iPlayer Downloading Features Programme availability Recent changes to iPlayer Watching outside the UK Resolving Issues Mobile and tablet issues Playback issues Smart TV and games console issues Computer issues iPlayer Kids app About the app Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
