https://www.bbc.co.uk/news
Home - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC BBC News News NavigationSections HomeHome selected Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads More More sections HomeHome selected Coronavirus Coronavirus Home Your Coronavirus Stories Video World World Home Africa Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada Asia Asia Home China India UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News Business Business Home Market Data New Economy New Tech Economy Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Business of Sport Global Education Economy Global Car Industry Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health Health Home Coronavirus World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads BBC News Home BreakingBreaking newsClose breaking news Latest Stories Most ReadSkip to most read Latest Stories Most Read Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. 13h13 hours ago Asia How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. 13h13 hours ago Asia Related content Who are the Taliban? Echoes of 1989 as foreign forces leave Afghanistan HK man guilty in first national security law trial The 24-year-old had flown a flag with a protest slogan while riding a motorcycle into police officers. 4h4 hours ago China Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Japanese superstar Naomi Osaka suffers a surprise exit in her home Olympics as Czech Marketa Vondrousova earns a straight-set win. 4h4 hours ago BBC Sport North and South Korea restore hotline after a year The two countries have not spoke since Pyongyang cut off all channels of communication last year. 8h8 hours ago Asia Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard The "Serendipity Sapphire" was accidentally found by a gem trader in Sri Lanka's Ratnapura region. 5h5 hours ago Asia Video 3 minutes 28 secondsVideo 3 minutes 28 seconds3:28 Video 3 minutes 28 seconds The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid One in five women that died from coronavirus in Brazil did not have access to an intensive care unit. 13h13 hours ago Latin America & Caribbean Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other Policemen from Mizoram and Assam states fired at each other over a contested border. 5h5 hours ago India US gymnast Biles pulls out of women's team final United States gymnast Simone Biles pulls out of the women's team final at Tokyo 2020, according to the International Gymnastics Federation. 1ma minute ago BBC Sport China stocks see biggest slump in US since 2008 The value of New York-listed Chinese companies has plummeted after a series of crackdowns by Beijing. 3h3 hours ago Business Covid: Has the UK passed the peak and can it relax? Nobody really expected cases to fall so fast in the UK, so what does it mean for getting back to normal? 13h13 hours ago Health Comments Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case Cardinal Becciu was once close to the Pope but was sacked after reports of financial misdeeds. 2h2 hours ago Europe Covid: Has the UK passed the peak and can it relax? Nobody really expected cases to fall so fast in the UK, so what does it mean for getting back to normal? 13h13 hours ago Health Comments Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case Cardinal Becciu was once close to the Pope but was sacked after reports of financial misdeeds. 2h2 hours ago Europe Final victim identified in Miami building collapse The family of Estelle Hedaya say they have confirmation she is the 98th victim of the Surfside disaster. 6h6 hours ago US & Canada DaBaby's HIV comments 'perpetuate discrimination' The rapper made false claims about the life expectancy of people with HIV at a US festival. 1h33 minutes ago Newsbeat Britney Spears officially requests new conservator The star's new lawyer says her father's control of her career is "insane and depressing". 3h3 hours ago Entertainment & Arts Must See The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans How to Watch BBC World News TV The latest global news, sport, weather and documentaries AudioListen Live Audio BBC World Service Radio Stories from around the world Video Video Sandstorms swallow city in China Video Video Is there a future for Africa's lions? How one city avoided worst of India floods Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream Video Video 'She wants to be a doctor so she can fix me' Most watched 1 VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid 2 VideoAustralia's vaccine rollout 'a colossal failure' 3 VideoSandstorms swallow city in China 4 VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize 5 VideoIs there a future for Africa's lions? Full StorySee All Video Video The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Video Video Australia's vaccine rollout 'a colossal failure' How US military pullback in Iraq could benefit Iran What to look for as US Capitol riot inquiry begins How to win elections and influence people in India How Covid passports work around the world Why Kenyans are suing the British army Long ReadsSee All The DJ helping stop weird, wired cocaine weekends 'Jurassic Pompeii' yields astounding fossil haul 'If she'd had an accident, we would have found her' Under the skin of OnlyFans The Broadway dancer whose lockdown business bloomed Most read 1 Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other 2 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard 3 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan 4 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit 5 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans 6 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants' 7 HK man guilty in first national security law trial 8 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse 9 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case 10 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal Around the BBC The homes powered by pedestrians BBC Future The selfish reason to praise others BBC Worklife The world's last Polynesian wayfinder BBC Travel The memoir that scandalised Paris BBC Culture What if the Olympics were naked again? BBC Future Is worker loyalty at a breaking point? BBC Worklife England's rare meat-eating plants BBC Travel SportSee All LiveLive Tokyo 2020: Swimming, tennis and hockey on day four Olympics Duffy wins Bermuda's first ever gold as GB's Taylor-Brown wins triathlon silver 7h7 hours ago Olympics 'Players wanted to play in Rugby League World Cup' 1h38 minutes ago Rugby League Bermuda becomes smallest country to win summer Olympic gold 5h5 hours ago Olympics Australian Wright wins first ever Olympic surfing medal 3h3 hours ago Olympics Jacoby becomes first Olympic gold medallist from Alaska 5h5 hours ago Olympics Morocco's Baalla attempts bite in last-16 Olympics boxing clash 2h2 hours ago Olympics Find us here News daily newsletter Get news from the BBC in your inbox each weekday morning Mobile app Find out more about our BBC News App Get in touch Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News News NavigationSections Sections HomeHome selected Coronavirus Coronavirus Home Your Coronavirus Stories Video World World Home Africa Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada Asia Asia Home China India UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News Business Business Home Market Data New Economy New Tech Economy Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Business of Sport Global Education Economy Global Car Industry Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health Health Home Coronavirus World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
