https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/10725415
How to share your questions, stories, pictures and videos with BBC News - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads Coronavirus pandemic Your Coronavirus Stories How to share your questions, stories, pictures and videos with BBC News Published 12 August 2020 Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing image copyrightThinkstock Every day BBC News - on TV, on radio and online - brings you the latest stories from across the globe... but what we want to hear are the issues that matter to you. The part you play in making the news is very important. Whether it is breaking news or a featured item, your contribution can make a difference. Have you seen or been involved in a news event? Is something significant, bizarre or unusual happening where you live? Have you got a story to tell or is there something you think we should follow up? Are there topics you want to get the world talking about? On what do you want to comment? Or do you want to find out what others are talking about? Terms of use for sending contributions to the BBC and the BBC's privacy policy. If you have a story, picture or video you wish to share here are the different ways to send in your contributions: Contact us on Twitter Contact us at twitter.com/BBC_HaveYourSay We may use your tweets displaying your Twitter username on BBC output. Message us via a chat app You can send a picture, video or message to our WhatsApp account +44 7756 165803. In some cases your text, as well as your images, may be used on BBC output. We will publish your name as you provide it (unless you ask us not to) but we will never publish your mobile phone number. We aim to read all of your messages but due to the numbers we receive each day it is not always possible to reply to everyone individually. Email Email your stories to haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk We aim to read all of your emails but due to the numbers we receive each day it is not always possible to reply to everyone individually. Email your pictures, video or audio to us at yourpics@bbc.co.uk In some cases your images or audio may be used on BBC output. If we use your material on BBC programmes or online we will publish your name as you provide it (unless you ask us not to) but we will never publish your email address. Upload You can also upload your video or pictures. In some cases your images may be used on BBC output. We will publish your name as you provide it, unless you ask us not to. Is there a story you'd like BBC News to investigate? Use this form to let us know: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your story or send them via email to Haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. Terms and conditions The BBC's Privacy Policy Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 4 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 Biles pulls out of women's team final3 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan4 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit5 Hamster wheel man washes up on Florida coast6 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'7 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans8 HK man guilty in first national security law trial9 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
