https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/help-50068132
How to get BBC News on smart speakers - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads How to get BBC News on smart speakers Published 11 May Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing On Amazon Alexa: Say "Play BBC News" to your Amazon Alexa smart speaker, and get the BBC's first ever interactive news bulletin. You can hear the latest headlines, deep-dive into the stories that interest you, or move on when you've heard enough - simply by using your voice. The commands you need to know are: "Alexa, next" to skip a story "Alexa, back" to repeat a story "Alexa, pause" and "Alexa, resume" to pick up where you left off You can also get an in-depth take on selected stories by saying "Alexa, more from the BBC" This will get you to the best reporting BBC News has to offer, with each item handpicked by our dedicated team of journalists. You can expect the human stories behind current events, and explainers and analysis on what's going on. Local and National news services: You can also access BBC local news from more than 40 stations across England, as well as the BBC's national services for Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales. Find more information here. Scotland Say "Alexa, play BBC News for Scotland" Or in Gaelic "Alexa, Bulletin Radio nan Gàidheal" Wales Say "Alexa, play BBC News for Wales" Or in Welsh "Alexa, Bulletin BBC Radio Cymru" Northern Ireland Say "Alexa, play BBC News NI" England Say "Alexa, play BBC News for [location] E.g. "Play BBC News for Manchester" These services are also available in Amazon Alexa "Routines". This means for example you could wake up at the same time each morning to the latest interactive news bulletin, your local news update or favourite BBC radio station. Find more information here. On Google Assistant and Apple Siri: If you say "Hey Google, play BBC News" to your Google Assistant or "Hey Siri, play BBC News" to your Apple device, you'll get a 2-minute BBC News briefing with no interaction involved. Due to limitations imposed by 3rd party platforms the interactive news bulletin and Local & Nations services are only available on Amazon Alexa devices. The BBC does not charge you to access smart speaker content and offers its services without cost to all UK smart speaker platforms. Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 3 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
