https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/cricket/57961240
Hundred organisers say online 'racism or other forms of abuse' unacceptable - BBC Sport Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC BBCSport All SportAll Sport Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling Olympic Games All Sport Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling Olympic GamesA-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Get Inspired Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Cricket Scores & Fixtures Tables England Men England Women The Hundred Counties All Teams Averages Hundred organisers say online 'racism or other forms of abuse' unacceptable Last updated on 25 July 202125 July 2021.From the section Cricket The Hundred is a new format of cricket which started in England this summer Organisers of The Hundred say they do not "accept racism or other forms of abuse" following "recent comments directed towards players and fans". The Hundred is a new cricket competition which started on Wednesday. A statement from organisers on the social media abuse in recent days said: "Sadly, we have witnessed these unacceptable behaviours online. "We stand together with the rest of cricket against all forms of discrimination." It added: "You can disagree with us on many things, but not on that. Those who do are not welcome here." The abuse relates to social media and not in the grounds during matches. West Indies all-rounder Carlos Brathwaite, who plays for Manchester Originals in The Hundred, has posted on social media criticising "these keyboard warrior racists". England World Cup-winning bowler Liam Plunkett plays for Welsh Fire and also posted about online criticism "if you have a bad day at the office" after he conceded 42 runs off 15 balls in his side's win over Northern Superchargers on Saturday. Plunkett said it is "crazy" that people "feel they have the right" to abuse players in such circumstances. The Hundred is run by the England and Wales Cricket Board and features eight new franchises, each with a men's and women's team. The abuse is among many recent incidents where sportspeople have been targeted, including Formula 1 driver Lewis Hamilton being racially abused on social media after his victory at his home British Grand Prix. England footballers Marcus Rashford, Jadon Sancho and Bukayo Saka also received racist abuse on social media after they all missed a penalty in the Three Lions' Euro 2020 final shootout defeat against Italy. A mural honouring Manchester United striker Rashford was also defaced, though it was repaired the next day and later covered with hundreds of messages of support. Get to know one of Team GB's biggest hopes for gold: Adam Peaty: Beneath the Surface is streaming now From Wildman to Ironman: How has Dirty Sanchez's Mat Pritchard turned into an ultra-endurance athlete? Top Stories Watch Tokyo 2020: Biles out of gymnastics final, Walkden wins taekwondo bronze, Dujardin equestrian final LiveLive From the section Olympics What's happened on day four? 2habout 2 hours ago From the section Olympics 696 Comments Biles pulls out of women's team final 16m16 minutes ago From the section Olympics Elsewhere on the BBC Fasten your seatbelts and get ready for Take Off! Who will jet off to star-studded Los Angeles and unforgettable Las Vegas? Does the Olympics have you craving Japanese food? Check out this handy list of ingredients and find easy recipes for a delicious meal Also in Sport Your guide to Tokyo Olympics - schedule, venues & golds Triumphant Tom, Duffy delight & catching waves with Ferreira Another GB gold and two silvers: What's been happening on day four? 'That's outrageous' - Moroccan boxer Baalla tries to bite opponent Moroccan boxer Youness Baalla bites opponent David Nyika of New Zealand in a "clear infringement of the rules" during their round of 16 tie at Tokyo 2020. Hales survives Stokes drop before smashing winning six How failure led to Honda's F1 success The wonder of double Olympic champion Peaty Tears on the podium for a dream come true - the story of Tom Daley Kimmince stars as Superchargers win with highest score of women's Hundred Pick your Lions XV for second Test against South Africa How would you fit Sancho into your Man Utd team? Cricket on the BBC Jonathan Agnew Analysis and opinion from the BBC's cricket correspondent. Cricket notifications, social media and more Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online. Feeling the Draft? How to get into cricket How to get into cricket - the thrill of the big hit, the rush of taking the catch, the skill of bowling. It's time to get into cricket. Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
