https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/kamloops
Kamloops - CBC News Skip to Main Content MenuTokyo 2020 SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch Kamloops Kamloops Currently Selected: Home Contact Us Weather Kamloops - CBC News Loaded CBC News canada LIVE RADIOLIVE Radio One - Kamloops Featured Content Painted crosswalks in Saskatoon honour children who died in residential schools "A lot of people need the healing, and I think this is a good way to recognize that," Kiyari McNab, co-founder of Chokecherry Studios in Saskatoon, said.  Canada -Saskatchewan |July 26 MUN archeology team offering to help Indigenous communities investigate unmarked graves Memorial Professor Lisa Rankin said the team is made up of eight people of different skill sets, with archeologists, historical researchers and community representatives. Canada -Nfld. & Labrador |July 26 International, national wildfire crews head to B.C. Nearly 5,000 properties remain under evacuation order and more than 16,000 are under evacuation alert over the weekend as hundreds of fires burn across the province, some fuelled by consistently warm temperatures and strong winds. Canada -British Columbia |July 25| Uncertified aviation fuel trucks pulled from service at Prince George Airport A Transport Canada inspection at the Prince George Airport discovered multiple trucks being illegally used to refuel planes. Canada -British Columbia |July 24| Audio 'Quilts for Survivors' project in Timmins inspires global support A Timmins, Ont. woman's project to create quilts for residential school survivors is quickly gaining momentum from fibre artists near and far. Canada -Sudbury |July 22| Video Search of former Mohawk Institute grounds should be a criminal investigation, survivors say Canada -Hamilton |July 21 B.C.'s South Coast could soon see smoky skies, experts warn Canada -British Columbia |July 20| Get informed on the top stories of the day in one quick scan July 20 Firefighters work 'through the night' against 50-square-kilometre fire near Ashcroft, B.C., as 306 blazes burn Canada -British Columbia |July 19 Gruelling walk to Kamloops 'heavy, but very important,' say Yukoners halfway through journey Canada -North |July 18 More CBC News Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now
