https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/calgary/covid-lethbridge-mp-rachael-harder-deaths-1.5815973
Lethbridge MP under fire for sharing article on COVID deaths, comorbidities and restrictions | CBC News Skip to Main Content MenuTokyo 2020 SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Lethbridge MP under fire for sharing article on COVID deaths, comorbidities and restrictions | CBC News Loaded Calgary Lethbridge MP under fire for sharing article on COVID deaths, comorbidities and restrictions Lethbridge MP Rachael Harder's sharing of an article on Facebook that says only 10 "otherwise healthy" people have died of COVID-19 in Alberta has triggered angry responses from people who say she is showing a lack of compassion and empathy for all who have died of the disease. Social Sharing Rachael Harder shared article that says just 10 'otherwise healthy' people have died of COVID in Alberta Bryan Labby · CBC News · Posted: Nov 25, 2020 6:26 PM MT | Last Updated: February 3 Lethbridge MP Rachael Harder shared a link to an article titled, The important COVID data from Alberta that all Canadians need to know. The article says data from Alberta Health proves that very few healthy people are dying of COVID-19. (Rachael Harder/Facebook ) Editor's note: This article was updated on Jan. 11, 2021, to better reflect the views of Ms. Harder and contextualize some of the reactions to her original post. Lethbridge MP Rachael Harder's sharing of an article on Facebook that says only 10 "otherwise healthy" people have died of COVID-19 in Alberta has triggered angry responses from people who say she is showing a lack of compassion and empathy for all who have died of the disease. The article highlights that all of the rest who died of COVID-19 in the province had pre-existing medical conditions. The article, published in the Toronto Sun on Nov. 17, points to data released by Alberta Health that outlines the number of pre-existing conditions, or comorbidities, in people who died of COVID-19. People with three or more pre-existing conditions, such as hypertension, dementia and cardio-vascular diseases, make up three-quarters of the total number of deaths. Those with two comorbidities make up 16 per cent. People with one make up five per cent, while those with no comorbidities make up 2.3 per cent of deaths.  The article says the comorbidity data "tells a much less alarming story," regarding the pandemic than what the public is hearing from media and governments.  MP says it's about protecting the vulnerable The post has prompted a flurry of comments from people who say Harder's decision to share the article is "callous and ignorant." Another post read: "How dare you minimize this disease and the threat to all of us." Harder was unavailable for an interview, but she did respond in an email to questions from CBC News. She was asked whether she considers people with pre-existing medical conditions to be of less value than those who are considered healthy. "Starting from the premise that the vulnerable must always be protected, let's be open to studying the numbers and what they mean," was one portion of her response. Harder did not respond to follow up questions asking her to clarify what she meant by studying the numbers and what they mean.  Harder insisted in her other responses that the premise of the article was that more needs to be done to protect the vulnerable.  "The article states, 'there are a number of persons out there who are facing multiple serious health challenges and that they are particularly vulnerable to dying from COVID-19. Their lives matter and we need to think of ways to better serve them,'" she wrote. Reaction to post Suné White, a new mother who lives in Drayton Valley, is one of the people who commented on the Conservative MP's post. Suné White and her 3-month-old son, Mason. White, who has an auto-immune disease, was offended that Lethbridge MP Rachael Harder posted an article highlighting data that indicates very few healthy people have died of COVID-19 in Alberta. (Suné White) White, 34, is a new mom, who is also a breast cancer survivor with an autoimmune disease. She's in the high risk category for contracting COVID-19 and wonders if Harder thinks less of her because of her pre-existing medical conditions. "I do take it personally, if she implies that people with pre-existing conditions are less important," said White. Facebook post by Suné White, 34 of Drayton Valley, in response to an article that was shared by Lethbridge MP Rachael Harder. (Facebook) "I'm a contributing member of society. I live healthy, I have an active lifestyle, as do many, many other Albertans. And our lives are just as important as people who are fortunate enough to not have a pre-existing condition." Non-fatal comorbidities  Last week, Alberta's chief medical officer of health commented on the release of the comorbidity data, suggesting it would be wrong to assume COVID-19 is only a threat to older people with pre-existing medical conditions. "Severe outcomes are not limited just to those already at the very end of their lives, and it is a mistake to think so," said Dr. Deena Hinshaw. She mentioned two people in their 30s who died as a result of the virus last week. "While both had comorbidities, these were not on their own life-threatening," she said. Dr. Raj Bhardwaj, an emergency doctor in Calgary, says the article implies we should judge people by their pre-existing medical conditions. He feels the need to point out that that is wrong. "If I run over you in a parking lot with my car, they don't say, 'oh, it's OK, that guy, had high blood pressure … it's fine, he had a comorbidity,'" he said. "That would be absolutely ludicrous." White says the article shared by Harder is hurtful to everyone who's been affected by COVID-19. "It seems as if our officials feel that it's OK that so many people died, simply because they have pre-existing conditions." "It diminishes our lives, and the grief of those that have lost loved ones to this virus." Bryan Labby is an enterprise reporter with CBC Calgary. If you have a good story idea or tip, you can reach him at bryan.labby@cbc.ca or on Twitter at @CBCBryan. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Bryan Labby Enterprise reporter Bryan Labby is an enterprise reporter with CBC Calgary. If you have a good story idea or tip, you can reach him at bryan.labby@cbc.ca or on Twitter at @CBCBryan. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from CBC Calgary Alberta reaches 'tragic milestone' with 500th COVID-19 death Doctors, health-care advocates say Alberta's new restrictions are inadequate DATA Here are the latest COVID-19 statistics for Alberta — and what they mean Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now
