https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-57968651
Lockdown weight gain averaging half a stone - survey - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads Health Coronavirus Lockdown weight gain averaging half a stone - survey Published 1 day ago comments Comments Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing image copyrightGetty Images More than 40% of adults in England have gained weight during the pandemic, a survey suggests, with the average gain being half a stone (just over 3kg). Public Health England (PHE), which surveyed 5,000 people, says Covid lockdowns and disrupted daily routines have made it challenging for people to eat healthy and keep fit. Snacking and comfort eating were given as the main contributor by about half of those who said they were fatter. PHE recommends a summer fitness drive. image copyrightGetty Images Its Better Health campaign offers free support and guidance on how to lose excess weight and become active using a 12-week plan. Gaining weight is often a gradual process, it says, happening over years as a result of "modern-day life and the odd unhealthy habit". As well as the visible weight gain, fat can also build up around vital organs, making it harder for the body to fight against diseases such as cancer, heart disease and Covid. But small, simple changes to diet and lifestyle can help shed excess pounds. Recent research from the Institute for Fiscal Studies, using data on millions of food and non-alcoholic purchases, found a large increase in calories from takeaways - peaking at more than double usual levels in the UK's second national lockdown in November 2020. Lockdown and weight gain - should you worry? Five ways to avoid lockdown back pain PHE chief nutritionist Dr Alison Tedstone said: "The past 16 months have caused many to change their habits, so it is not a surprise to see so many people reporting weight gain. "We know how hard it can be to lose weight and keep it off - so, we are providing a range of support options to help motivate people and help them maintain a healthy weight. "It's never too late to make changes to help improve your health. "Visit the Better Health website for ideas and support that is right for you and you can seek support from your local weight-management service." Better Health has partnered with other organisations, including Slimming World, Weight Watchers and Noom, providing free or discounted offers. EPIDEMIC v PANDEMIC: What's the difference? NEW VARIANTS: How worried should we be? COVID IMMUNITY: Can you catch it twice? DELIVERIES: How can I get a takeaway safely? LOCKDOWN TIPS: Five ways to stay positive View comments Related Topics Obesity Weight loss More on this story Living with obesity: Hard-wired to store fat Published 17 June Mum mistakes pregnancy for lockdown weight gain Published 14 January Around the BBC Lockdown and weight gain – should you worry? BBC Food Related Internet Links Better Health - NHS The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 4 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
