https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-wales-57979208
Mum hit by car at Denbighshire festival as daughter, 2, thrown to safety - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads Wales Wales Politics Wales Business North West North East Mid South West South East Cymru Local News Mum hit by car at Denbighshire festival as daughter, 2, thrown to safety By Matt Lloyd & Lola Mayor BBC News Published 13 minutes ago Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing image copyrightFamily photo image captionJenna O'Neill suffered life-changing injuries in the crash, but her daughter Ayla was saved by husband Stephen A mother seriously injured by a "careering car" says her two-year-old daughter was saved by her husband throwing her out of the way. Jenna O'Neill, 32, of Gloucestershire, suffered life-changing injuries after being struck by a car while at a festival in north Wales at the weekend. Ms O'Neill was airlifted to hospital from the Conscious Tribal Gathering in Denbighshire after Saturday's incident. Her husband Stephen said he "thought they had died and my life was ruined". "My two-and-a-half year old toddler only survived this incident because my husband threw her out of the way of the car as it careered down the hill," Ms O'Neill said, speaking from hospital in Stoke. Driver who killed woman by hitting tent jailed Green Man festival to return next month Musicians 'overwhelmed' as Tramlines returns "He's a hero. Things would be very different if it wasn't for his quick-thinking and fast actions." North Wales Police said they were called to a report that an "unoccupied vehicle had rolled downhill over a tent at a campsite near Corwen", which is about 15 miles west of Wrexham. The force has launched an investigation and is liaising with the Health and Safety Executive. image copyrightRoger Kidd | Geograph image captionThe Conscious Tribal Gathering says it is in "a private site deep in the Dee Valley" in north Wales "We were sat outside our tent enjoying the sunshine having just had lunch," said Ms O'Neill, who is from the Forest of Dean. "The camping fields were on a sharp incline. We, like many people, had camped at the bottom as it was the only shaded area." The Welsh ambulance service confirmed it was called to "reports of a road traffic collision involving pedestrians" in the Glyndyfrdwy area of Corwen at about 13:30 BST on Saturday. The service said one person was flown by air ambulance to the major trauma unit at the Royal Stoke University Hospital, while two people were taken to Wrexham's Maelor Hospital in a road ambulance. North Wales Fire and Rescue Service confirmed firefighters were called to stabilise the vehicle while paramedics treated the injured people. 'I thought my life was over' image copyrightFamily photo image captionMr O'Neill said he thought he had lost his family and his "life was ruined" Ms O'Neill's husband Stephen said he had thought his "life was over" when he saw the aftermath of the incident. Mr O'Neill said: "We were sat outside our tent having lunch and a neighbouring tent got our attention and just shouted 'move out the way' and looked worried and confused. "In that moment I just felt desperation to help Ayla and it felt like there wasn't much time between the neighbour seeing the car and us being hit. "I watched it roll down the hill and thought 'oh my God, my family is under the car' - I just thought they had died and my life was ruined." He said he saw his daughter lying face-down on a collapsed tent near the wheel of the car. "I thought she was dead. She had a graze on her face and I checked her limbs, but she was fine," he said. Mr O'Neill added his wife "was in a terrible state" but was concerned about her daughter. "My daughter had seen what happened, so I just had to get her away from the scene when first aiders arrived. "I spent the time pacing between trying to relax Ayla and it was only after half an hour that people told me I had grabbed her out the tent and got her to the other side, but I have no recollection of this." 'I genuinely believed my whole family had died' image copyrightFamily photo image captionFestivalgoers Jenna and Stephen O'Neill were both taken to hospital Ms O'Neill said she was in a critical but stable condition in hospital having suffered a broken collar bone, 10 broken ribs and a fractured pelvis, as well as damage to her liver and spleen. However, she added: "Mentally I keep going over what happened. I genuinely believed my whole family had died." Daughter Ayla "escaped with cuts" and husband Stephen fractured his ankle, but has since been discharged from hospital. "I'm really struggling with the fact that two days ago I was healthy and having fun with my family and now I'm unable to move in a hospital bed, unable to see my family as I'm so far from home due to Covid restrictions," said Ms O'Neill. "However all of this is manageable as I am so aware that it could have been so much worse if it wasn't for the actions of my heroic husband throwing our toddler out of the way of the oncoming car. So I am grateful for their safety." 'No effort by stewards' Ms O'Neill said she "100% has no doubt" that the situation could have been avoided had the festival's rules been adhered to. "In these guidelines from the festival website, it clearly states that cars must be parked in designated areas after unloading and kept away from hilly inclines - particularly not facing down the hill," she said. "I can confirm that from the moment we arrived on Thursday, there were multiple cars in the camping areas, many of which, including vans, were at the top of the hill facing down. This is something we discussed as we thought it seemed unfair and odd. "The organisers or stewards seemed to put no effort into sticking to these guidelines." The Conscious Tribal Gathering was a five-day event between Thursday and Monday and on its website describes itself as "an ultra chilled family friendly event to connect with like-minded souls". Organisers have been asked to comment. REKINDLE OLD FLAMES: Retired Cardiff Fire Fighters discuss their time in the fire service. JENNA PREECE: Making our world more accessible and inclusive for disabled people post-lockdown Related Topics Wrexham Corwen North Wales Police More on this story 'Open land for wild camping', say campaigners Published 7 hours ago Driver who killed woman by hitting tent jailed Published 22 October 2019 Related Internet Links North Wales Police Geograph The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
