https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/natural-england
Natural England - GOV.UK Skip to main content Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies You can change your cookie settings at any time. Hide this message GOV.UK Show search Search on GOV.UK Search GOV.UK Coronavirus (COVID-19) Guidance and support Home Organisations Natural England Access and rights of way Land management Landscape Parks, trails and nature reserves Protected sites and species Recreation Wildlife and habitat conservation Publications, maps and data Contact Natural England All Natural England services and information Featured Operational update: Coronavirus 21 July 2021 — News story Chief Executive Marian Spain on how Natural England is working to bring about Nature’s recovery. Cattle wearing smart collars will improve sand dune habitats 16 July 2021 — Press release Cattle in Lincolnshire are wearing new smart collars to help improve precious sand dune habitats. Innovative nature projects awarded funding to drive private investment 14 July 2021 — Press release A pioneering new fund to drive private investment in nature and tackle climate change has been awarded to 27 projects New Countryside Code launched to help people enjoy the outdoors 1 April 2021 — Press release The new Code allows people of all ages and backgrounds to enjoy the health and wellbeing benefits that nature offers, while giving it the respect it deserves. Nature for Climate Peatland Grant Scheme: Discovery Grants open to fund the development of restoration projects 7 July 2021 — Press release Grant opens to fund new projects to scope and develop sites where peat can be restored Biodiversity 3.0 metric launched in new sustainable development toolkit 7 July 2021 — Press release Natural England unveils the Biodiversity Metric 3.0 to help developments achieve biodiversity net gain and give back to nature Latest from Natural England Open access restriction at South Teesdale: outcome 22 July 2021 Consultation outcome Open access restriction at Richborough Wharf: outcome 22 July 2021 Consultation outcome Open access restriction at Dungeness National Nature Reserve (2): outcome 22 July 2021 Consultation outcome See all latest documents Subscriptions Get emails Subscribe to feed Subscribe to feed Copy and paste this URL into your feed reader What Natural England does We’re the government’s adviser for the natural environment in England. We help to protect and restore our natural world. Natural England is an executive non-departmental public body, sponsored by the Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs. Read more about what we do Follow us Follow on Twitter Follow on YouTube Follow on Flickr Follow on LinkedIn Follow on Blog Follow on Facebook Follow on Instagram Follow on SlideShare Documents Services Report a dead or injured animal Rights of way and accessing land See all services Guidance and regulation Prevent Japanese knotweed from spreading 18 January 2018 Guidance GS2: Permanent grassland with very low inputs (outside SDAs) 30 March 2021 Countryside Stewardship grant See all guidance and regulation News and communications Operational update: Coronavirus 21 July 2021 News story Boost to drive investment in Essex, Norfolk and Lincolnshire environment 21 July 2021 Press release See all news and communications Research and statistics The People and Nature Survey for England: Monthly indicators for May 2021 (Official Statistics) 14 July 2021 Official Statistics The People and Nature Survey for England: Monthly indicators with specific weight for April 2020 - March 2021 (Official Statistics) 14 July 2021 Official Statistics See all research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Open access restriction at South Teesdale: outcome 22 July 2021 Consultation outcome Open access restriction at Richborough Wharf: outcome 22 July 2021 Consultation outcome See all policy papers and consultations Transparency and freedom of information releases Kent's National Nature Reserves 9 July 2021 Corporate report Natural England’s response times to planning consultations in England 9 July 2021 Corporate report See all transparency and freedom of information releases Our management Dr Tony Juniper CBE Chair Marian Spain Chief Executive Alan Law Deputy Chief Executive Dr Tim Hill Chief Scientist Navroza Ladha Chief Legal and Governance Officer Gleny Lovell Chief Officer for Planning and Performance The Rt Hon Lord Blencathra Deputy Chair Dr Andy Clements Non-executive board member Professor Michael Winter OBE Non-executive board member Catherine Dugmore Non-executive board member Professor Sue Hartley OBE Non-executive board member Henry Robinson Non-executive board member Kim Shillinglaw Non-executive board member Kerry ten Kate Non-executive board member Rosamund Blomfield-Smith Non-executive board member Peter Unwin Non-executive board member Contact Natural England Enquiries Natural England County Hall Spetchley Road Worcester WR5 2NP United Kingdom Email enquiries@naturalengland.org.uk Telephone 0300 060 3900 **Covid-19 update:** our offices are closed, please do not send correspondence by post. Opening times: 8:30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays) Find out about call charges at www.gov.uk/call-charges. Bats: general advice Telephone (Bat Conservation Trust) 0345 1300 228 For licensing or planning and development queries, contact Enquiries on 0300 060 3900. Bovine TB and badger control in England Email BTBEnquiries@naturalengland.org.uk Telephone 0300 060 0550 Camping and caravanning exemption certificates Telephone 0300 060 3900 Commons Telephone 0300 060 3900 To consult us about works on commons or arrange to send us your application for works. National Nature Reserves Telephone 0300 060 6000 Open Access Contact Centre Email openaccess@naturalengland.org.uk Telephone 0300 060 2091 Suspected wildlife or pesticide poisoning Telephone 0800 321 600 Wildlife Incident Investigation Scheme (WIIS) Head Office Natural England 4th Floor, Foss House Kings Pool 1-2 Peasholme Green York YO1 7PX United Kingdom Telephone 0300 060 3900 The Enquiries team answer calls. Please tell them the name of the person you want to speak to, if known. Make an FOI request Read about the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act and how to make a request. Check our previous releases to see if we’ve already answered your question. Make a new request by contacting us using the details below. Freedom of Information (FOI) and Environmental Information Regulations (EIR) requests Enquiry Service Natural England County Hall Spetchley Road Worcester WR5 2NP United Kingdom Email foi@naturalengland.org.uk Corporate information Our organisation chart Research at Natural England Office access and opening times Media enquiries Statistics at Natural England Complaints procedure Equality and diversity Accessible documents policy Our governance Jobs and contracts Procurement at Natural England Working for Natural England Jobs Read about the types of information we routinely publish in our Publication scheme. Our Personal information charter explains how we treat your personal information. Read our policy on Social media use. Find out About our services. Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Close Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Close Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. We’ll send you a link to a feedback form. It will take only 2 minutes to fill in. Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone. Email address Send me the survey Coronavirus (COVID-19) Coronavirus (COVID-19): guidance and support Brexit Check what you need to do Services and information Benefits Births, deaths, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Departments and policy How government works Departments Worldwide Services Guidance and regulation News and communications Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency and freedom of information releases Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
