http://nwrpi.weebly.com/
NORTH WEST RARE PLANT INITIATIVE - Home NORTH WEST RARE PLANT INITIATIVE North-West Rare Plant Initiative Cultivating and conserving NW England's rarest plant species  Home About News White Beak-sedge back from the brink Green-winged Orchid reintroduced to Cheshire Small Cudweed: Swinging Fortunes Lesser Bladderwort - success beyond expectation! Great Sundew reintroduced to the mosses Dune Wormwood - a plant in trouble! Conserving Petty Whin (Genista anglica) 2018 round up The Team Volunteering The North West Rare Plant Initiative (NWRPI) is an initiative based principally across Merseyside, Lancashire, Greater Manchester, Cheshire and South Cumbria with the aim of cultivating & reintroducing vascular plant species on the brink of extinction at a regional level, where suitable situations exist. To see a list of species at the focus of the NWRPI, see "NWRPI Priority Species" below and the "Species Information" button below to find out more about them.  Under the Wildlife and Countryside Act (1981) and Theft Act (1968), it is illegal to uproot any wild plant without the permission of the landowner. Please do not dig up or plant species in areas without the permission of a landowner and knowing what it is.  NWRPI Priority Species The Facts Each year on average, one plant species goes extinct in each county throughout England.  The State of Nature Report (2016) found that over 56% of 4000 plant species studied showed significant decline throughout the country. 1 in 7 indigenous plant species are under threat of extinction throughout the UK. With the huge decline and threat of extinction of many of Great Britain's indigenous plant species, there is an ever pressing need for efforts to conserve individual species and habitats at not only national, but at a regional level. This is an outlook often lacking in the conservation world with a generally strong focus on  animal taxa. The efforts of NWRPI across North-West England aims to help those plant species most at risk of extinction regionally, through education, cultivation, translocation and re-introductory methods. To find out more about what we're doing, click here: About Us News Species Information Our Commitments: Site Surveys The NWRPI is not simply about reintroduction - many steps must be in place to ensure successful introduction of a species onto a site including a pre-introductory survey and monitoring of a site post-introduction. The NWRPI works entirely on a voluntary basis and all site monitoring and surveys are free of charge.  For an overview of the NWRPI reintroduction protocol, click the button below. If any landowner is interested in becoming involved with the NWRPI, please contact the email address below.  ? Reintroduction Protocol Funding from Our rare plants are disappearing. We're changing that.? Contact us by email: joshual95@live.co.uk Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates. Get Started Home About News White Beak-sedge back from the brink Green-winged Orchid reintroduced to Cheshire Small Cudweed: Swinging Fortunes Lesser Bladderwort - success beyond expectation! Great Sundew reintroduced to the mosses Dune Wormwood - a plant in trouble! Conserving Petty Whin (Genista anglica) 2018 round up The Team Volunteering
