https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/35176037
Notifications, Live Guide, MySport and social media with BBC Sport - BBC Sport Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC BBCSport All SportAll Sport Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling Olympic Games All Sport Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling Olympic GamesA-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Get Inspired Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Notifications, Live Guide, MySport and social media with BBC Sport From the section Sport Download the BBC Sport app: Apple external-link - Android external-link - Amazon external-link Want all the biggest sports news, analysis and event updates sent direct to your phone or tablet? Then download the BBC Sport app and sign up to notifications. During the football season you can make sure you never miss your club's goals - you'll have the news sent straight to your device as soon as the ball hits the back of the net. Read on to find out how to sign-up, plus discover other ways to interact with BBC Sport. Sign up for notifications on the BBC Sport app The BBC Sport app offers two types of notification. With news notifications you can have the biggest sport stories and the best content right at your fingertips. Stay in the know by picking from our offering of top sport headlines, football news - including the biggest updates, features and analysis on your Premier League club - and news from nine other major sports, as well as the best from each nation of the United Kingdom. You can also follow your team from wherever you are with our massive range of event notifications. We offer notifications across five sports - football, cricket, Formula 1, rugby union and rugby league - covering every major moment. Line-ups, kick-offs, and half-time scores, goals, wickets, tries and conversions, results and times on the wave of the chequered flag. We serve more than 400 teams, with more to come. If you're reading on your phone or tablet web browser and have the app on your device, hit this link external-link and we'll take you directly to the notifications sign-up page. If you're already in the app, you'll find the notifications sign-up page in your menu bar. The app comes with all our website content along with a radio player, Chromecast integration, a widget and personalised menu options. It's free and easy to download - simply head to the relevant link below: For more information on each feature and getting set-up, visit our app FAQ page. Personalise with MySport By signing into the website or app, you can create a personalised sport experience. You might want to add Commonwealth Games, cricket, tennis, boxing and squash - by doing so your My Sport area will display the latest articles and videos from those topics, and also relevant information such as latest scores and results. My Sport also works across devices, so if you set preferences in the app, they will work on the website and vice versa, as long as you are signed in with a BBC account. To set one up, head here - if you've already got a BBC account you're halfway there. Live Guide We've got a live stream and text commentaries for hundreds of sporting events, so how do you choose what to watch? Simply head to the Live Guide and you can see all the available events. Social media BBC Sport are, of course, on Facebook. external-link And Twitter. external-link And Instagram. external-link And YouTube. external-link And TikTok. external-link Follow us for behind-the-scenes access and exclusive Q&As with sport stars and BBC presenters. And why not follow our Match of the Day and Test Match Special accounts too? Twitter Facebook Instagram Match of the Day external-link Match of the Day external-link Match of the Day external-link Test Match Special external-link Test Match Special external-link BBC Cricket external-link You can also find Test Match Special on Flickr. external-link Newsletter Whatever your sporting interests you'll discover more with BBC updates. We'll tell you about future coverage and returning programmes, and bring you sporting news, views and events from across the BBC. Sign up here. Top Stories Watch Tokyo 2020: Biles out of gymnastics final, Walkden wins taekwondo bronze, Dujardin equestrian final LiveLive From the section Olympics What's happened on day four? 3habout 3 hours ago From the section Olympics 703 Comments Biles pulls out of women's team final 17m17 minutes ago From the section Olympics Also in Sport Your guide to Tokyo Olympics - schedule, venues & golds Triumphant Tom, Duffy delight & catching waves with Ferreira Another GB gold and two silvers: What's been happening on day four? 'That's outrageous' - Moroccan boxer Baalla tries to bite opponent Moroccan boxer Youness Baalla bites opponent David Nyika of New Zealand in a "clear infringement of the rules" during their round of 16 tie at Tokyo 2020. Hales survives Stokes drop before smashing winning six How failure led to Honda's F1 success The wonder of double Olympic champion Peaty Tears on the podium for a dream come true - the story of Tom Daley Kimmince stars as Superchargers win with highest score of women's Hundred Pick your Lions XV for second Test against South Africa How would you fit Sancho into your Man Utd team? Elsewhere on the BBC Fasten your seatbelts and get ready for Take Off! Who will jet off to star-studded Los Angeles and unforgettable Las Vegas? Does the Olympics have you craving Japanese food? Check out this handy list of ingredients and find easy recipes for a delicious meal Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
