https://www.bbc.co.uk/contact/questions
Questions | Contact the BBC Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC Contact the BBC Menu Contact Home Questions Comments Complaints Olympics Questions Want to find out more about our output, get help using our services, or just have a general enquiry about the BBC? If so, browse our popular answers or use the search bar below to search our FAQs. Top Tip: Try searching with a keyword, like the name of the programme or service you have a question about. If you would like to search all content on www.bbc.co.uk try the main search box at the top right of the page. Our Olympic FAQs and your feedback Answers to your Olympic questions, and where to make comments and complaints Our Olympic FAQs and your feedback Using BBC Content If you have questions about using BBC images, video or other material covered by BBC Copyright check out our Copyright FAQs Using BBC Content BBC Highlights and Recommendations Had it with Sport or just fancy a new box set to binge watch? Here are some of the ways to find some more great programmes to enjoy. BBC Highlights and Recommendations search Popular Questions Will Doctors be taking a break this summer? Can I use BBC content or material? How can I take part in The Repair Shop? Getting In Touch See all I've seen a BBC News story about donating laptops. How can I help? How can I contact the BBC? How can I contact a BBC programme? Help Using BBC Services See all Have the BBC Sport and BBC News TV apps closed? Are the Lottery and Weather information services no longer available on the connected red button? Will the BBC text service on red button continue to be available? Programme Information See all Why isn't the BBC showing multiple streams of all sports at Olympics 2020? How can I catch up with the Day's Olympic highlights? Where can I find the medals table for the Tokyo Olympics 2020? Shows, Tours and Take Part See all How can I take part in The Repair Shop? I have a ticket to be in the audience for a BBC show, can I still go? Can I still attend BBC Tours due to the coronavirus outbreak? Behind the scenes See all Where can I find information about the licence fee? Consultations on licence fees for older people in Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man - where can I find out more? Who is the new BBC Director-General? Using BBC Content See all Can I use BBC content or material? Can I share things from the BBC? Can I use BBC sound effects? Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
