https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-57967494
Ronan Keating accepts phone hacking damages - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads Entertainment & Arts Ronan Keating accepts phone hacking damages Published 1 day ago Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing Related Topics Phone-hacking scandal image captionRonan Keating is the former frontman of Boyzone, and current host of Magic Radio breakfast and The One Show Ex-Boyzone singer and presenter Ronan Keating has accepted "substantial" damages from News Group Newspapers over the phone hacking of his voicemails. Keating's lawyers told a hearing at London's High Court that newspaper stories published between 1996 and 2011 had caused him "considerable distress". They also led to him distrusting some of his closest friends, they added. News Group Newspapers apologised for the distress caused by "individuals" in relation to the News of the World. The newspaper closed in 2011. The phone-tapping scandal engulfed the UK print news industry and ultimately prompted the Leveson Inquiry. Phone-hacking trial explained Bake Off presenter accepts phone-hacking damages Keating and Jenas join The One Show permanently The pay-out amount has not been revealed, but the Magic Radio breakfast and The One Show TV host now considers the matter closed, the BBC understands. He is the latest high-profile person to receive damages for historical phone hacking by tabloid reporters, including Noel Fielding and former footballer Ally McCoist. In May, Keating was given a permanent spot on The One Show sofa after being officially being named as one of Alex Jones's co-hosts, along with ex-footballer Jermaine Jenas. Keating has also co-hosted Magic Radio breakfast with Harriet Scott since 2017. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. Related Topics Phone Hacking Phone-hacking scandal More on this story Keating and Jenas join The One Show permanently Published 29 April Phone-hacking trial explained Published 25 June 2014 Bake Off presenter accepts phone-hacking damages Published 4 March Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
