https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/trump-georgia-corrected-report-fraud-call-1.5951110
Tapes reveal Trump never told Georgia officials to 'find the fraud' but did press them to investigate | CBC News Skip to Main Content MenuTokyo 2020 SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Tapes reveal Trump never told Georgia officials to 'find the fraud' but did press them to investigate | CBC News Loaded World Tapes reveal Trump never told Georgia officials to 'find the fraud' but did press them to investigate The Associated Press says a report that Donald Trump told Georgia officials on a December phone call about the November election to 'find the fraud' was incorrect and that he never used those words. Social Sharing On phone call about Nov. 3 election, Trump said, 'When the right answer comes out, you'll be praised' The Associated Press · Posted: Mar 15, 2021 9:49 PM ET | Last Updated: March 16 Donald Trump, shown in the Oval Office in 2017. Tapes reveal he never told election officials in Georgia to 'find the fraud' but did press them to investigate. (Evan Vucci/The Associated Press) CBC News first published this Associated Press report on Jan. 9, 2021. It was updated by the AP on March 15, 2021, to correct that The Associated Press, based on information provided by a source, erroneously reported that Trump pressed the investigator to "find the fraud" and said it would make the investigator a national hero. A recording of the call made public two months later revealed that Trump did not say either and instead said that if the investigator looked into Fulton County the investigator would "find things that are gonna be unbelievable." Trump also told the investigator: "When the right answer comes out, you'll be praised." The original story is here. The corrected Jan. 9 story follows below.  While election officials in Georgia were verifying signatures on absentee ballot envelopes in one metro-Atlanta county in late 2020, President Donald Trump pressed a lead investigator to look at a different county, saying the investigator would "find things that are gonna be unbelievable." Trump also told the investigator: "When the right answer comes out, you'll be praised." The December phone call, described by a person familiar with it who spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to describe the sensitive nature of the discussion, is yet another link in the chain of the extraordinary pressure campaign waged by Trump on state officials as he sought to overturn the results of the November election, which he lost to Democrat Joe Biden. Election officials and observers examine ambiguous ballots during the Georgia presidential election recount at a Richmond County elections facility in Augusta, Ga., on Nov. 30, 2020 (Michael Holahan/The Augusta Chronicle via The Associated Press) 3 calls held over a month It is one of at least three phone calls, held over the course of a month between early December and early January, where Trump sought help from high-level Georgia officials in subverting the election — only to be rebuffed each time. Trump lost to Biden in Georgia by 11,779 votes. The call to the investigator preceded Trump's Jan. 2 call to Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger in which he asked election officials to "find" enough votes to overturn Biden's win in the state. It occurred as election officials were conducting an audit of signatures on absentee ballot envelopes in Cobb County. Trump pressed the investigator to look into Fulton County, a Democratic stronghold that contains most of Atlanta. The audit, which reviewed more than 15,000 signatures, found no cases of fraud. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation helped conduct the signature audit. Trump and his allies have for months made false claims about Georgia's signature verification process for absentee ballots and about the results of the November election. Among other things, they demanded an audit of the signature matches. A worker scans ballots as the presidential recount process gets underway on Nov. 24, 2020, in DeKalb County, Ga. (Ben Gray/The Associated Press) The White House had no immediate comment. The call was first reported on Saturday by the Washington Post, which said it was withholding the name of the investigator, who did not respond to requests for comment, because of the risk of threats and harassment directed at election officials. Various election officials across the country and Trump's former attorney general, William Barr, have said there was no widespread fraud in the election. Raffensperger and other officials in Georgia have repeatedly disputed Trump's false claims about the election and said it was conducted freely and fairly. Congress certified Biden's electoral college win early Thursday — hours after a violent throng of pro-Trump rioters stormed the Capitol. During another call in early December, Trump pressed Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp to order a special session of the state legislature to subvert Biden's victory. Kemp refused. Trump repeatedly lashed out at Raffensperger and Kemp, both fellow Republicans, and others he saw as standing in his way of overturning his election loss. In last week's call with Raffensperger, Trump urged the secretary of state to change the certified results. "All I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have," Trump said. "Because we won the state." Raffensperger said in response: "President Trump, we've had several lawsuits, and we've had to respond in court to the lawsuits and the contentions. We don't agree that you have won." Legal experts said the call raised questions about possible election law violations by Trump, and several Democrats in the state have called for an investigation to be opened. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Article correction Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now
