https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-leeds-57972616
Tara Hanlon jailed for over £5m money laundering offences - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads England Regions Leeds & West Yorkshire Tara Hanlon jailed for over £5m money laundering offences Published 18 hours ago Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing image copyrightNCA image captionBefore getting caught, Tara Hanlon claimed her job was a "perfect life" A woman has been jailed for 34 months after being found at Heathrow Airport with five suitcases stuffed with nearly £2m in cash. Tara Hanlon, 30, of Pelham Court, Leeds, pleaded guilty at Isleworth Crown Court in June to money laundering offences worth more than £5m. She was arrested as she tried to board a flight to Dubai on 3 October 2020 with more than £1.9m in cash. Hanlon previously claimed to have "the perfect life" due to her job. image copyrightNCA image captionHanlon was boarding a flight to Dubai at Heathrow Airport when she was caught Border officials said the find was the largest individual cash seizure at the UK border in 2020. Hanlon previously admitted three counts of removing criminal property relating to cash amounts of £1.4m on 14 July, £1.1m on 10 August and £1m on 31 August 2020. The court heard that on the day she was arrested, Hanlon was stopped at the airport by a customs official when travelling with a friend to Dubai. When asked about the purpose of the visit and her luggage, she said she was going on a "girls' trip" and that she had checked-in the five suitcases because she "wasn't sure what to wear" while there. 'Perfect life' The money was discovered in vacuum-packed bundles which had been hidden under coffee in an apparent attempt to disguise the haul from sniffer dogs. In a prepared statement to investigators, Hanlon said it was the first trip she had taken, that she was not being paid and she believed it to be legal as the money would be declared in Dubai. However, inquiries with the airline and a search of her phone revealed she had made three previous visits in July and August as a courier and had been paid about £3,000 for each trip. In text messages, she bragged: "Three big ones… with this wage and the next my debts go bye." Other messages referred to the job as a "perfect life, a few days in the sun and a few at home". image copyrightBorder Force image captionOfficials said the £1.9m find in October was the largest individual cash seizure made at the UK border in 2020 The National Crime Agency discovered Hanlon had declared she was carrying more than £1m in cash upon arrival on each occasion, totalling £3.5m. Stephen Grattage, defending, claimed Hanlon was vulnerable at the time of the offences following the sudden death of her mother in March and having been furloughed from her job shortly afterwards due to the Covid pandemic. However, sentencing, Judge Karen Holt told her: "Although you were vulnerable at the time, I don't find that you have been exploited and find that you knew what you were doing." Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk or send video here. Related Topics Leeds London Heathrow Airport From other local news sites People's Postcode Lottery: These two lucky South Leeds postcodes have won today's daily lottery prize External Yorkshire Evening Post Man caught with spice who had been out of jail for just weeks is recalled to prison External Telegraph and Argus Aireborough charity beer festival back on track External Keighley News Steeton firm reports strong global trade despite the pandemic External Keighley News Leeds in July 1999 - 14 stories making the news External Yorkshire Evening Post Here are 12 jobs in Wakefield you can apply for now External Wakefield Express Information about BBC links to other news sites Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
