https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-57973960
Tesco Bank to close all its current accounts - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture MenuMore Search Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Coronavirus Video World Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts More Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads Business Market Data New Economy New Tech Economy Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Business of Sport Global Education Economy Global Car Industry Tesco Bank to close all its current accounts Published 22 hours ago comments Comments Share close Share page Copy linkAbout sharing Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic image copyrightGetty Images Tesco Bank has said it will close all of its current accounts because most customers are no longer using them. The bank has estimated only 12% of its current accounts are being used by customers as their primary account. It said most had "limited activity" and others were being used for "other purposes, such as a savings pot". The decision comes after the bank reported a £175m loss in April, compared with a £193m profit in the previous 12 months. Customers' options The bank said all of its 213,000 personal current accounts would cease to exist on 30 November. It had closed its current accounts to new business in December 2019. Customers will receive a letter in the next two weeks to inform them of their accounts closing, the bank said. Gerry Mallon, chief executive of Tesco Bank, said the bank would support customers to find "a suitable alternative dependent on their circumstances". image copyrightGetty Images Options include customers moving to a new current account provider via the Current Account Switching Service (CASS) or moving their balance to a Tesco Bank savings account. The bank said it had asked customers who choose not to switch to a new current account to move any regular incoming or outgoing payments to a different account, and to make sure their account has a balance of zero by 30 November. "The way customers shop and manage their money is constantly evolving and we are committed to developing products and services which align with the needs of Tesco shoppers," said Mr Mallon. "With so few of our current account customers using it as their primary account we want to support them to find a suitable alternative dependent on their circumstances. We will pay particular attention to supporting any vulnerable customers and those in need of financial assistance." Supermarkets - with their ready-made branch networks - were once seen as the main challengers to the dominance of High Street banks. They saw themselves as destinations for much more than groceries, and that included financial services. That vision was blurred by stricter regulation, the decreasing importance of branches to digitally-served customers, and the emergence of agile, new app-based banks. Banks want people to hold their primary current account with them. Not least, because they can make money when customers go overdrawn. The incentives they offer for switching a primary account make that obvious. That was rare for Tesco Bank customers, so it is scrapping these accounts. Digital challenger banks are trying hard to clear the same hurdle, in an attempt to finally break the stranglehold of the big High Street banking brands. Tesco Bank has been reducing its financial services operations in recent years, having once seen it as an opportunity for rapid expansion. Its mortgage book was sold two years ago and now current accounts will close. It follows department store M&S, which is closing its current accounts in August and has already shut its in-store branches. M&S Bank, which is a joint venture between the retailer and HSBC, has built up more than three million customers. View comments Related Topics UK banking Personal finance Retailing Coronavirus pandemic Companies Tesco Banking Money More on this story Tesco counts cost of Covid trading as profits drop Published 14 April Tesco Bank to pull out of mortgage market Published 21 May 2019 M&S Bank branch closures reflect shift to online Published 2 July Top Stories How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan Maps of Afghanistan show who controls districts in fighting between the government and Taliban forces. Published 13 hours ago HK man guilty in first national security law trial Published 3 hours ago Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit Published 4 hours ago Features Braving sharks and crocodiles for an Olympic dream How to win elections and influence people in India Bringing Afrobeats to Japan. VideoBringing Afrobeats to Japan How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan The pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid. VideoThe pregnant Brazilian women dying from Covid Why Kenyans are suing the British army Can more tech make video meetings less excruciating? The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans The changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize. VideoThe changing faces of Australia's top portrait prize Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read Five die as Indian policemen fire at each other1 Largest star sapphire cluster found in backyard2 How the Taliban retook half of Afghanistan3 Japan's Osaka in shock Olympics exit4 The girl killed for wearing a pair of jeans5 'It's shocking to have to pay to not play in our pants'6 HK man guilty in first national security law trial7 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse8 Vatican cardinal on trial in $412m fraud case9 Wright wins first Olympic surfing medal10 BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Why you can trust the BBC Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
