https://www.bbc.com/news/world/us_and_canada
US & Canada - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC BBC News News NavigationSections Home Coronavirus Video WorldWorld selected Asia UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads More More sections World selected Africa Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selected More More sections Home Coronavirus Coronavirus Home Your Coronavirus Stories Video WorldWorld selected World Home Africa Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selected Asia Asia Home China India UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News Business Business Home Market Data New Economy New Tech Economy Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Business of Sport Global Education Economy Global Car Industry Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health Health Home Coronavirus World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Long Reads World Â  Africa Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selected US & Canada BBC News US & Canada US combat forces to leave Iraq by end of year The move, while largely symbolic, could provide a domestic boost to both the US and Iraqi leaders. 2h2 hours ago US & Canada Related content How Iran stands to gain from US pull-out Related content How Iran stands to gain from US pull-out Top Stories US combat forces to leave Iraq by end of year The move, while largely symbolic, could provide a domestic boost to both the US and Iraqi leaders. 2h2 hours ago US & Canada Related content How Iran stands to gain from US pull-out What to look for as US Capitol riot inquiry begins An attempt for a full accounting of the Capitol riot may well turn into the latest partisan inquest. 13h13 hours ago US & Canada Final victim identified in Miami building collapse The family of Estelle Hedaya say they have confirmation she is the 98th victim of the Surfside disaster. 6h6 hours ago US & Canada Top Trump aide denies working as foreign agent Thomas Barrack has been accused of lobbying the US government on behalf of the United Arab Emirates. 13h13 hours ago US & Canada Britney Spears officially requests new conservator The star's new lawyer says her father's control of her career is "insane and depressing". 3h3 hours ago Entertainment & Arts 1:14 Video 1 minute 14 seconds Hemingway 'lookalike' chosen in Florida contest A 63-year-old won the Key West, Florida contest for his likeness to the award-winning author. 15h15 hours ago US & Canada US to maintain Covid foreign travel restrictions The White House says current rules will remain due to rising cases and variant transmission. 16h16 hours ago US & Canada Featured Contents US combat forces to leave Iraq by end of year The move, while largely symbolic, could provide a domestic boost to both the US and Iraqi leaders. 2h2 hours ago US & Canada Related content How Iran stands to gain from US pull-out Related content How Iran stands to gain from US pull-out What to look for as US Capitol riot inquiry begins An attempt for a full accounting of the Capitol riot may well turn into the latest partisan inquest. 13h13 hours ago US & Canada Final victim identified in Miami building collapse The family of Estelle Hedaya say they have confirmation she is the 98th victim of the Surfside disaster. 6h6 hours ago US & Canada Top Trump aide denies working as foreign agent Thomas Barrack has been accused of lobbying the US government on behalf of the United Arab Emirates. 13h13 hours ago US & Canada Britney Spears officially requests new conservator The star's new lawyer says her father's control of her career is "insane and depressing". 3h3 hours ago Entertainment & Arts 1:14 Video 1 minute 14 seconds Hemingway 'lookalike' chosen in Florida contest A 63-year-old won the Key West, Florida contest for his likeness to the award-winning author. 15h15 hours ago US & Canada US to maintain Covid foreign travel restrictions The White House says current rules will remain due to rising cases and variant transmission. 16h16 hours ago US & Canada What to look for as US Capitol riot inquiry begins An attempt for a full accounting of the Capitol riot may well turn into the latest partisan inquest. 13h13 hours ago US & Canada Final victim identified in Miami building collapse The family of Estelle Hedaya say they have confirmation she is the 98th victim of the Surfside disaster. 6h6 hours ago US & Canada Top Trump aide denies working as foreign agent Thomas Barrack has been accused of lobbying the US government on behalf of the United Arab Emirates. 13h13 hours ago US & Canada Britney Spears officially requests new conservator 1:14 Video 1 minute 14 seconds Hemingway 'lookalike' chosen in Florida contest US to maintain Covid foreign travel restrictions Features & analysis How US military pullback in Iraq could benefit Iran Gender disparities still vex Tokyo Olympics Did the US fund risky virus research in China? A weekend in America: Shootings shock capital city 5:44 Video 5 minutes 44 seconds 'Six years old, I was imprisoned here' Race in America Why black TikTok creators have gone on strike Police training in US v other countries Actors decry 'racist' hit Korean-Canadian sitcom 2:58 Video 2 minutes 58 seconds The couple keeping Black Wall Street alive Study shows impact of 'climate racism' in US The migrant crisis Are more migrants crossing US-Mexico border than ever? Kamala Harris visits US border amid migrant crisis 'Heartbreaking' conditions at US migrant camp 4:26 Video 4 minutes 26 seconds US migrant camp 'kids feel like they're in prison' Children speak of neglect in US asylum camps Watch/Listen 0:42 Video 42 seconds Inside a US fire truck driving through a wildfire 1:01 Video 1 minute 1 second Moment mum saves five-year-old from kidnap attempt 1:41 Video 1 minute 41 seconds Video captures powerful California fire tornado 3:14 Video 3 minutes 14 seconds 'People went to sleep, and then they died' 1:56 Video 1 minute 56 seconds The Yankees' 70-year-old bat girl Latest Updates Posted at 11:4511:45 Man in floating hamster wheel washes up in Florida Reza Baluchi was trying to "run" 1,000 miles north, but ended up 30 miles south of his start point.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 10:1610:16 US combat forces to leave Iraq by end of year The move, while largely symbolic, could provide a domestic boost to both the US and Iraqi leaders.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 8:468:46 China stocks see biggest slump in US since 2008 The value of New York-listed Chinese companies has plummeted after a series of crackdowns by Beijing.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 5:545:54 Final victim identified in Miami building collapse The family of Estelle Hedaya say they have confirmation she is the 98th victim of the Surfside disaster.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 23:27 26 Jul23:27 26 Jul Top Trump aide denies working as foreign agent Thomas Barrack has been accused of lobbying the US government on behalf of the United Arab Emirates.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 23:12 26 Jul23:12 26 Jul What to look for as US Capitol riot inquiry begins By Anthony Zurcher North America reporter An attempt for a full accounting of the Capitol riot may well turn into the latest partisan inquest.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 20:31 26 Jul20:31 26 Jul Bezos' $2bn offer to get back in race to the Moon By Paul Rincon Science editor, BBC News website The billionaire offers to cover $2bn in Nasa costs to be reconsidered for a Moon lander contract.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 20:10 26 Jul20:10 26 Jul High-level talks lay bare US-China divisions Senior Washington and Beijing officials clash on issues including sanctions, tariffs and human rights.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 19:56 26 Jul19:56 26 Jul US to maintain Covid foreign travel restrictions The White House says current rules will remain due to rising cases and variant transmission.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 19:20 26 Jul19:20 26 Jul How US military pullback in Iraq could benefit Iran By Frank Gardner BBC security correspondent The withdrawal of remaining US combat troops could help Iran achieve its ambitions.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 14:57 26 Jul14:57 26 Jul US vaccine boost put down to Covid Delta variant Video content Video caption: US vaccine boost put down to Covid Delta variantUS vaccine boost put down to Covid Delta variant There is a serious increase in infections in a number of US states, a chief medical officer says. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 11:47 26 Jul11:47 26 Jul Covid map: Where are cases the highest? By The Visual and Data Journalism Team BBC News Key maps and charts explaining how the virus has spread around the world.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 21:25 25 Jul21:25 25 Jul Curfew across Afghanistan as Taliban advance The government says the measure is to help its forces stop Taliban militants infiltrating cities.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 19:57 25 Jul19:57 25 Jul Fauci says US going in wrong direction on Covid President Joe Biden's top medical adviser says cases are rising in areas with low vaccination rates.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 14:25 25 Jul14:25 25 Jul Jackie Mason, rabbi turned comedian, dies aged 93 The famed US stand-up comedian and actor voiced Krusty the Clown's father in The Simpsons.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 23:42 24 Jul23:42 24 Jul R. Kelly accused of abusing teenage boy The R&B star had sexual contact with a 17-year-old he met in McDonald's, prosecutors claim.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 22:32 24 Jul22:32 24 Jul LA man who mocked Covid-19 vaccines dies of virus Stephen Harmon, who opposed getting vaccinated, has died after a month-long struggle with the virus.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 21:26 24 Jul21:26 24 Jul Serial killer on death row dies of natural causes Infamous "Dating Game Killer" Rodney Alcala was sentenced in 2010 for murdering women in California.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 9:54 24 Jul9:54 24 Jul What do we know about the Miami collapse victims? Ninety-seven people have been confirmed dead and only one victim remains unaccounted for.Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Page 1 of 50 rewind previous Navigate to the next page nextNavigate to the last page forward Around the BBC The homes powered by pedestrians BBC Future The selfish reason to praise others BBC Worklife The world's last Polynesian wayfinder BBC Travel The memoir that scandalised Paris BBC Culture What if the Olympics were naked again? BBC Future Is worker loyalty at a breaking point? BBC Worklife England's rare meat-eating plants BBC Travel Find us here News daily newsletter Get news from the BBC in your inbox each weekday morning Mobile app Find out more about our BBC News App Get in touch Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News BreakingBreaking newsClose breaking news News Navigation Sections World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selectedSections Home Coronavirus Coronavirus Home Your Coronavirus Stories Brexit UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Alba Wales Cymru Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News WorldWorld selected World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selected Business Business Home Your Money Market Data Companies Economy Global Car Industry Business of Sport Politics Politics Home Parliaments Brexit Tech Science Health Family & Education Family & Education Home Young Reporter Global Education Entertainment & Arts Stories In Pictures Newsbeat Reality Check Long Reads Disability BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
