https://www.chapters.indigo.ca/en-ca/toys/wall-stories-kids-wall-stickers/623996900996-item.html?ikwid=wall+decals&ikwsec=KidsAndToys&ikwidx=0#algoliaQueryId=67d37895ae837d8724088e5bea1a2080
Wall Stories Kids Wall Stickers - Paw Patrol, Pups Save the Parade - Interactive Animal Wall Sticke... by Wall Stories | Toys | www.chapters.indigo.ca Previous Save an extra 10% on almost everything and enjoy free shipping every day. Join plum PLUS Shop online & pick up today. Free pickup in as little as three hours Welcome back to your happy place! We can’t wait to see you Shop safely in stores. Masks are mandatory - see our Covid protocolsNext skip to search skip to departments skip to content hello, sign in Your Account Sign In create accountaccount centre order historyorder historymy rewardsgift card balanceSign Out Order Status Rewards Centre plum and plum PLUS Well Said Podcast Inspired Blog Stores Events Français Enter search keywords hereEnter search keywords here Display wishlist Display registry Display cart Cart mobile menumenu hello, (sign out)sign in Back to School Books Kids books Kids & Toys Baby Wellness Home Fashion Paper Electronics Gifts Sale account centre order status PLUM AND PLUM PLUS Well Said Podcast rewards centreStore LocatorWish Listregistry Events Inspired Blog Français Back to School Books Kids books Kids & Toys Baby Wellness Home Fashion Paper Electronics Gifts Sale indigo kids' & toys Kids' Home Kids' Décor Kids' Frames & Wall Décor Wall Stories Kids Wall Stickers - Paw Patrol, Pups Save the Parade - Interactive Animal Wall Stickers for Kids Bedrooms - Large Peel and Stick Wall Decals with Free Play and Activity App byWall Stories Ages 3 - 6 Click twice to zoom $39.99 Earn 200 plum® points + WISH LIST Buy Online Ship to an address Out of stock online.NOTIFY ME WHEN AVAILABLE TO SHIP Pick up in store To see if pickup is available, select a store Find In Store Not sold in stores Prices and offers may vary in store about • COLOURFUL KIDS ROOM DECORATION: Give life to an empty wall! With our interactive wall stickers based on augmented reality, your kids get to play with the Paw Patrol on their bedroom wall. With the free app, these Paw Patrol characters actually come to life. Discover this educational 4-in-1 product: decoration + storybook + learning game + augmented reality wall decoration game - great value for money and a magical experience all in one! • PUPS SAVE THE PARADE: Discover our new Paw Patrol collection today! Your kids will have so much fun interacting with their very own Wall Stories adventure, as well as searching for their favorite Paw Patrol characters in the ‘Seek & Find’ game. And, they’ll also be able to play virtual dress up with the Wall Stories app! How cool is that? Great kid’s birthday present. Great room decor for boys and girls. • WHAT’S INCLUDED: 3 sheets of 12" x 24" / 30 x 60 cm wall art stickers with easy-to-follow instructions Dimensions of the mural once assembled: 40" x 40" / 100 x 100 cm. The stickers are numbered, so you can easily assemble the wall art in minutes. Stick on an even, dry and clean surface. Free app to download for the interactive games and learning activities (iOS and Android compatible). Does not damage the wall if removed. • LEARN WHILE YOU PLAY: Have fun and learn at the same time! The interactive app includes 3 learning modes: Story, Games and Creation. This way, the little ones can immerse themselves in stories, entertain themselves with educational activities and even add their own virtual designs and ideas to the wall decor. Intuitive explanations and easy follow-along learning experience. A great way to decorate a nursery, bedroom or playroom quickly and effortlessly. Age: 2-6 years old. • AN INTERACTIVE WALL DECORATION FOR CHILDREN: With these interactive wall stickers, bring the walls of your children's room to life! Your kids can play with Paw Patrol Pups with the free downloadable app that brings them to life in augmented reality. Children's wall decoration ideal for children from 2 to 6 years old. Easy and quick to install; does not damage the walls when removed. Perfect wall stickers for a boy's or girl's room. Details & Specs Product name:Wall Stories Kids Wall Stickers - Paw Patrol, Pups Save the Parade - Interactive Animal Wall Sticke... Product dimensions:2.2" H × 10.5" W × 14.25" L Shipping dimensions:2" H × 12" W × 10" L Shipping weight:1.7 lbs. UPC:623996900996 Appropriate for ages:3 - 6 Customer Reviews Write a Review * required fields  (not you?) Overall Rating*   Playability Rating* Give Your Review a Title* Write Your Review* Would you recommend this product to a friend? yesno I am a... SelectParentGrandparentTeacherKid at heart Age of the child I gave this to: Select0-6 months6-12 months1 year2 years3 years4 years5 years6 years7 years8 years9 years10 years11 years12 years13 years14 years15 years16 years17 years18 years + Educational/Developmental Value: Durability: Hours of Play: Give Yourself a Nickname*: Tell Us Where You Are: submit Preview Your Review Preview Your Review Your Review Has Been Submitted not posted yet YES, I recommend this product. NO, I do not recommend this product. Educational/Developmental Value: Durability: Hours of Play: submit edit my review Thank you. Your review has been submitted and will appear here shortly. Recently Viewed hide | clear Contact Us shipping & returns careers CUSTOMER SERVICES Help Contact Us Shipping & Returns Covid-19 FAQ Corporate Sales Product Recalls Catalogues Events Sitemap ABOUT INDIGO Our Company Careers Affiliates Program Indigo Love of Reading Foundation Sustainability Diversity & Inclusivity Vendors & Authors Thoughtfull.co Privacy Policy Terms of Use Visit our store in Short Hills, NJ, USA Stay in the know Join our email list to get exclusive offers, the best in books, and more. Email AddressSign Up You may unsubscribe at any time. Open Indigo Twitter Open Indigo Facebook Open Indigo Instagram Open Indigo YouTube Open Indigo Pinterest © 2021 Indigo. All rights reserved. 620 King St. W. Suite 400, Toronto ON M5V 1M6
